# Assignment-2.5

1.Cluster- In a computer system, a cluster is a group of servers and other resources that act like a single system and enable high availability and, in some cases, load balancing and parallel processing.
Hadoop Cluster-A Hadoop cluster is a special type of computational cluster designed specifically for storing and analyzing huge amounts of unstructured data in a distributed computing environment. Such clusters run Hadoop's open source distributed processing software on low-cost commodity computers. Typically one machine in the cluster is designated as the NameNode and another machine the as JobTracker; these are the masters. The rest of the machines in the cluster act as both DataNode and TaskTracker; these are the slaves. Hadoop clusters are often referred to as "shared nothing" systems because the only thing that is shared between nodes is the network that connects them. 
Hadoop clusters are known for boosting the speed of data analysis applications. They also are highly scalable: If a cluster's processing power is overwhelmed by growing volumes of data, additional cluster nodes can be added to increase throughput. Hadoop clusters also are highly resistant to failure because each piece of data is copied onto other cluster nodes, which ensures that the data is not lost if one node fails.


2.Rack-A rack is a collection of 30 or 40 nodes that are physically stored close together and are all connected to the same network switch. Network bandwidth between any two nodes in rack is greater than bandwidth between two nodes on different racks.A Hadoop Cluster is a collection of racks.
Rack awareness in Hadoop
Usually Hadoop clusters of more than 30-40 nodes are configured in multiple racks.Communication between two data nodes on the same rack is efficient than the same between two nodes on different racks.In large clusters,in order to improve network traffic while reading/writing HDFS files,NameNode chooses data nodes which are on the same rack or nearby rack to read/write request(client node).
NameNode achieves this rack information by maintaining rack ids of each data node.This concept of choosing closer data nodes based on racks information is called Rack Awareness in Hadoop.A default Hadoop installation assumes all the nodes belong to the same rack.The each block of data will be transmitted to multiple machines. It prevent if some machine failure, we not losing all copies of data. No lose of data if entire rack fails. If possible the system can keep bulky flows in rack. Mostly the rack is higher bandwidth and lower latency.
